README.md, before:

# easytable

This is a (very) small project that builds upon
[Apache's PDFBox](http://pdfbox.apache.org) (>= 2.0.4) and should allow you
to create tables in a fairly simple way.
It emerged from the need in another project. Therefore it also may miss some
crucial features. Nevertheless there is:
* setting font and font size on table, row and cell level
* setting single cells with bottom-, top-, left- and right-border width separately
* background color on table, row and cell level
* padding (top, bottom, left, right) on cell level
* border colors (on table, row or cell level)
* support for text alignment (right, left, center, justified)
* vertical text alignment (top, middle, bottom)
* cell spanning and row spanning 
* line breaking and line spacing
* images in cells
* experimental: vertical text

One can also override classes that are responsible for table/cell drawing, i.e. 
their drawing behaviour can be customized to a pretty high extent.

## Examples

[This code](src/test/java/org/vandeseer/integrationtest/ExcelLikeExampleTest.java) is needed in order to produce a 
PDF document with the following two tables:

![easytable table](doc/example.png)

![easytable table](doc/example2.png)

For the next example have a look at the [SettingsTest.java](src/test/java/org/vandeseer/integrationtest/SettingsTest.java):

![easytable table](doc/example3.png)

The last one illustrates the use of vertical text in text cells. The code for 
it can be found [here](src/test/java/org/vandeseer/integrationtest/VerticalTextCellTest.java):

![easytable table](doc/example4.png)


If you run the tests with `mvn clean test` there also some PDF documents created which you can find in the `target` folder.
The corresponding sources (in order to understand how to use the code) can be found in the test package.

## Installation

Add this to your `pom.xml`:

    <dependency>
        <groupId>com.github.vandeseer</groupId>
        <artifactId>easytable</artifactId>
        <version>0.5.0</version>
    </dependency>

Or checkout the repository and install it locally with maven (e.g. for the`develop` branch):

    mvn install -DskipTests -Dgpg.skip

## Kudos

- to [Binghammer](https://github.com/Binghammer) for implementing cell coloring and text center alignment
- to [Sebastian Göhring](https://github.com/TheSilentHorizon) for finding and fixing a bug (column spanning)
- to [AndreKoepke](https://github.com/AndreKoepke) for the line breaking feature, some bigger nice refactorings and 
improvements
- to [Wolfgang Apolinarski](https://github.com/wapolinar) for the printing over pages and bugfixes
- to [AdrianMiska](https://github.com/AdrianMiska) for finding and fixing an issue with cell height
- to [TheRealSourceSeeker](https://github.com/TheRealSourceSeeker) for finding a bug caused by using `float`s
- to [Drummond Dawson](https://github.com/drumonii) for code changes that allowed removing a dependency

## Q&A

### Can I customize the drawers for my own specific needs?

Yep, you can customize the cell drawers itself or (depending on your use case)
you can just create a custom cell. 

For using a customized cell drawer, have a look at 
[CustomCellDrawer](src/test/java/org/vandeseer/integrationtest/custom/CustomCellDrawer.java).

In case you want to create your own type of cell (which shouldn't really be necessary since the 
drawing can be completely adapted) you will need to use [Lombok](https://projectlombok.org/)'s `@SuperBuilder`
annotation. Again, just have a look at the code: 
[CustomCellWithCustomDrawerUsingLombok](src/test/java/org/vandeseer/integrationtest/custom/CustomCellWithCustomDrawerUsingLombok.java)

### Does it work with Java < 8?

Nope. You will need at least Java 8.

### Does it work with PDFBox 1.8.9?

Well, Using it with PDFBox 1.8.9 requires you to check out version
0.0.7 (tagged as such in git) and install it locally, i.e.:

    git checkout v0.0.7
    mvn clean install

Note though that the API has changed quite a bit in the meantime ...

### Cool, I like it, can I buy you a beer?

Yes. Or you can upvote this answer on [stackoverflow](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/28059563/how-to-create-table-using-apache-pdfbox/42612456#42612456).

Commit message:

Add Q&A about tables over multiple pages

README.md, after:

# easytable

This is a (very) small project that builds upon
[Apache's PDFBox](http://pdfbox.apache.org) (>= 2.0.4) and should allow you
to create tables in a fairly simple way.
It emerged from the need in another project. Therefore it also may miss some
crucial features. Nevertheless there is:
* setting font and font size on table, row and cell level
* setting single cells with bottom-, top-, left- and right-border width separately
* background color on table, row and cell level
* padding (top, bottom, left, right) on cell level
* border colors (on table, row or cell level)
* support for text alignment (right, left, center, justified)
* vertical text alignment (top, middle, bottom)
* cell spanning and row spanning 
* line breaking and line spacing
* images in cells
* experimental: vertical text

One can also override classes that are responsible for table/cell drawing, i.e. 
their drawing behaviour can be customized to a pretty high extent.

It is also possible to draw a table over multiple pages (even with the 
header row being repeated on every new page).

## Examples

[This code](src/test/java/org/vandeseer/integrationtest/ExcelLikeExampleTest.java) is needed in order to produce a 
PDF document with the following two tables:

![easytable table](doc/example.png)

![easytable table](doc/example2.png)

For the next example have a look at the [SettingsTest.java](src/test/java/org/vandeseer/integrationtest/SettingsTest.java):

![easytable table](doc/example3.png)

The last one illustrates the use of vertical text in text cells. The code for 
it can be found [here](src/test/java/org/vandeseer/integrationtest/VerticalTextCellTest.java):

![easytable table](doc/example4.png)


If you run the tests with `mvn clean test` there also some PDF documents created which you can find in the `target` folder.
The corresponding sources (in order to understand how to use the code) can be found in the test package.

## Installation

Add this to your `pom.xml`:

    <dependency>
        <groupId>com.github.vandeseer</groupId>
        <artifactId>easytable</artifactId>
        <version>0.5.0</version>
    </dependency>

Or checkout the repository and install it locally with maven (e.g. for the`develop` branch):

    mvn install -DskipTests -Dgpg.skip

## Kudos

- to [Binghammer](https://github.com/Binghammer) for implementing cell coloring and text center alignment
- to [Sebastian Göhring](https://github.com/TheSilentHorizon) for finding and fixing a bug (column spanning)
- to [AndreKoepke](https://github.com/AndreKoepke) for the line breaking feature, some bigger nice refactorings and 
improvements
- to [Wolfgang Apolinarski](https://github.com/wapolinar) for the printing over pages and bugfixes
- to [AdrianMiska](https://github.com/AdrianMiska) for finding and fixing an issue with cell height
- to [TheRealSourceSeeker](https://github.com/TheRealSourceSeeker) for finding a bug caused by using `float`s
- to [Drummond Dawson](https://github.com/drumonii) for code changes that allowed removing a dependency

## Q&A

### Can I customize the drawers for my own specific needs?

Yep, you can customize the cell drawers itself or (depending on your use case)
you can just create a custom cell. 

For using a customized cell drawer, have a look at 
[CustomCellDrawer](src/test/java/org/vandeseer/integrationtest/custom/CustomCellDrawer.java).

In case you want to create your own type of cell (which shouldn't really be necessary since the 
drawing can be completely adapted) you will need to use [Lombok](https://projectlombok.org/)'s `@SuperBuilder`
annotation. Again, just have a look at the code: 
[CustomCellWithCustomDrawerUsingLombok](src/test/java/org/vandeseer/integrationtest/custom/CustomCellWithCustomDrawerUsingLombok.java)

### Can I draw a table over multiple pages?

Yes, have a look at [TableOverSeveralPagesTest.java](src/test/java/org/vandeseer/integrationtest/TableOverSeveralPagesTest.java).
Just use `startY(...)`  and `endY(..)` in order to restrict the vertical part of the page 
where the table should be drawn: 

    RepeatedHeaderTableDrawer.builder()
        .table(createTable())
        .startX(50)
        .startY(100F)
        .endY(50F) // <-- If the table is bigger, a new page is started
        .build()

### Does it work with Java < 8?

Nope. You will need at least Java 8.

### Does it work with PDFBox 1.8.9?

Well, Using it with PDFBox 1.8.9 requires you to check out version
0.0.7 (tagged as such in git) and install it locally, i.e.:

    git checkout v0.0.7
    mvn clean install

Note though that the API has changed quite a bit in the meantime ...

### Cool, I like it, can I buy you a beer?

Yes. Or you can upvote this answer on [stackoverflow](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/28059563/how-to-create-table-using-apache-pdfbox/42612456#42612456).
